<Major Responsibilities>
・Maintain and provide 3PD/GEPICS documents to customer for different vehicle building phase.
・Attend meetings, record changes and manage Part number by creating Work orders.
・Launch support. Trouble shooting of BCM/ELM issues that found in the plant.
・Check for each software release on GM system. Making software flash bundles.
・Track HW delivery of BCM/ELM/Antenna.
・Responsible for BCM/ELM calibration file creation based on vehicle option on GM global B program
・Test software-calibration package in simulator bench
・Complete the investigation report related to some topics assigned by DICH.
・Other tasks assigned by DRE and DENSO.
・Other tasks and responsibilities assigned by line manager or the management.
<Competences and Capability & Skills>
・Good knowledge of Body Electronics domain architecture and components.
・Experience in the automotive industry preferably but good to have work experience
・Capability to execute test, troubleshooting tasks independently.
・Driver license is preferred.
・Skillful in using MS Office Software, including Excel, Word and PPT
・Good organizational skills – must be able to manage and prioritize work to meet deadlines
・Sensitive to figures and good analysis and writing skills
・Good communication and coordination skills
・Strong interpersonal skills – must work well on a team, proactive to find resolution or get help when issues arise, ability to take directions well and execute it
・Able to communicate in English

・维护并向客户提供不同造车阶段的3PD/GEPICS文件。
・通过创建工作单来参加会议、记录更改和管理部件号。
・启动支持。工厂中发现的BCM/ELM问题的故障排除。
・检查GM系统上的每个软件版本。制作软件闪存捆绑包。
・跟踪BCM/ELM/天线的硬件交付。
・负责根据通用汽车全球B计划中的车辆选项创建BCM/ELM校准文件
・测试软件-模拟器台架校准包
・完成与DICH分配的部分主题相关的调查报告。
・发展和发展部和发展部分配的其他任务。
・直线经理或管理层指派的其他任务和职责。
<能力和能力与技能>
・熟悉车身电子领域架构和组件。
・有汽车行业经验者优先，但有工作经验者优先
・独立执行测试和故障排除任务的能力。
・驾驶证优先。
・熟练使用MS Office软件，包括Excel、Word、PPT
・良好的组织技能–必须能够管理和确定工作的优先级，以满足最后期限要求
・对数字敏感，具有良好的分析和写作能力
・良好的沟通和协调能力
・强大的人际交往能力–必须在团队中工作良好，在出现问题时积极主动地寻找解决方案或寻求帮助，能够很好地接受指导并执行指导
・能够用英语交流

备注：
1、有汽车电子类、软件类工作经验；
2、英语能作为工作语言；
3、接受驻厂工作。
