CitiBank Interview in English：You can simply prepare your work experience and projects, reasons for leaving and future development direction. 
If you can't bear it, just put the video and read it face to face. The interviews are all in pure Chinese.

Test process, database, python/Java, automation direction can be seen more.

Hello，Let me briefly introduce myself.
My name is Zhu Ting.In 2020,I graduated from Shanghai Polytechnic University, majoring in communication engineering.
By now, I've had two years of experience at the age of 24 .
Next I'll talk about why I plan to leave my job and what I did at work.

WHy I plan to leave Chinasoft International (Shanghai) Technology Service Limited Coperation?
First of all, too much overtime.
Secondly, during this year, I have become familiar with the testing process of this project.
I tend to find a job that matches my work experience.

At present, I work at Chinasoft International Technology Service Limited Corporation. and take on huawei projects called a behavioral modeling tool test.
The Behavioral Modeling Tool is a simulation software that runs on Windows and functions similarly to the simulink module in matlab.
So in my work, I often need to build some models ,pre-check and run them.When I got the simulation results,I need to compare them with the expected results.

So，I need to introduce the functions about our testing objects

Behavior工具是一个CS架构的软件。工具中有一些组件库，我们可以拖动一些组件，搭建一些模型，然后进行仿真，会得到一个运行结果，并和simulink模块中的仿真结果进行对比。
工具还可以进行端口的类型推断、模型检查、配置一些自定义数据类型，比如数组、记录体、枚举、键值对等，以及simulink导入、代码自动生成、数据字典映射、autosar的导入导出等等。
The Behavior tool is a CS architecture software. There are some component libraries in the tool, we can drag some components, build some models, 
and then simulate, we will get a running result, and compare with the simulation results in the simulink module.
The tool can also perform port type inference, model checking, configure some custom data types, such as arrays, 
record bodies, enumerations, key-value pairs, etc., as well as simulink import, code automatic generation, data dictionary mapping, 
autosar import and export, and so on.

......介绍下行为建模软件的功能。预检测、运行模型，对搭建的模型进行类型推断、类型系统、数组、记录体、枚举、配置自定义数据类型(like json格式字符串、)、搭建高阶组件模型、状态机、
simulink导入、代码自动生成、A2L、模型检查、数据字典等等


组件库分类：
Source库
Sinks库
Array库
Conversions库
  JSON组
  FlowControl库
    Aggregators组
    Selectors组
    IfControl组
 HigherOrderActors库   
 IO库
 Logic库
 Math库
 Matrix库
 Random库
 String库
 DomainActors库
 Verification库
 
 针对行为建模工具，行为建模工具是一个怎么样的工具，自己负责的是哪一块？
 1、一个建模工具，功能和MATLAB中的simulink模块类似，可以进行搭建一些模型，仿真并输出结果
 2、代码生成、那么代码生成这块功能可以介绍一下嘛？
  For behavioral modeling tools, what kind of tool is a behavioral modeling tool, and which piece is it responsible for?
 1. A modeling tool, similar to the simulink module in MATLAB, can build some models, simulate and output results
 2. Code generation, so can the function of code generation be introduced?
 
 Basic Setting
    Language:C/C++  Library C99/C++14 Platform:embedded autosar autosarAp
    Output directory:
    Generatings:
      Generate testfiles
      Generate log message
      Generate output sinks
      Generate RtE header file
      Generate Generate code for components
      Generate Pack IO ports
 
 Type mapping 类型映射 int8->sint8
  ...
  
 Style 
      Initialization Style
      function initialization init_function/const
      Code Style 
      Memory copy style:iteratively/memcpy
      
 Optimization
 
 A2L: A2LConfigurations      Target Endianess:Little-Endian/big-Endian
 
 Memory Map:
 Sections /Pre Statement/Post Statement
 
 测试的组织架构
 
 项目经理
 测试经理  开发经理  产品经理
 测试团队(6) 测试小组长 测试人员(6个 模型搭建  手工测试  自动化测试)
 
 在项目中承担一个怎样的角色？
 负责工具的手工测试、自动化测试
  
 Organization of the test
 
project manager
Test Manager Development Manager Product Manager
Test Team(6) Test Team Leader Tester (6 Model Building  Manual Test  Automated Test)
 
What is your role in the project?
Responsible for manual and automated testing of tools
  
 
Here I need to introduce our testing process.
First, the development personnel conduct the requirement presentation. 
The test personnel can understand the presentation content in the meeting and provide suggestions based on the content.

The second,test engineer designs the test based on the test content provided by the development personnel.
We also analyze the points from which we should design the test. 

Third, after the test design is completed, our team needs to conduct the test review. 
After that, the team needs to invite the development personnel to conduct the test review so that we can see what needs to be improved in the test design.

Fourth, we begin to conduct iterative testing. Function test cases are written according to the test design.
If any exception is found during the test,we ought to contact development personnel engineers for confirmation and submit a trouble ticket.
If development personnel do not agree with us, we can invite colleagues in our team to review the problem.

测试和开发产生分歧该怎么办？
1、寻找图片或者是文字等证据说服开发
2、拉自己的主管或者是测试经理和开发评审
3、话术上有技巧，给开发戴下高帽子，说为了工具好，站在客户的角度去考虑
4、对于开发不回复的问题，直接提单，然后等开发那边找我们评审，核实不是问题转需求关闭或者非问题关闭
What should I do if there is a divergence in testing and development?
1. Find pictures or text and other evidence to persuade and develop
2. Pull your own supervisor or test manager and development review
3. There are skills in words, put on a high hat for development, and say that for the sake of good tools, consider from the customer's point of view
4. For problems that the development does not reply, directly bill of lading, and then wait for the development side to find us for review to verify 
that it is not a problem to turn the demand closed or non-problem to close

错误的分类：


Fifth, after the function test is complete, we need to upload the written cases to TengWu and associate the cases with CIDA.

Sixth, when all this is done, we begin to write automated testing cases. Our tools are currently implemented primarily in the Java language.
Infrequently, Python and C are involved.

自动化脚本的结构是怎样的？公共方法啊，自己写的用例啊，框架啊，swing、javafx啊，拖组件用的方法啊

Java语言用来实现自动化用例
Java自动化工程的目录，我们的测试项目是使用maven管理的，pom.xml可以配置路径并导入行为建模工具的jar包，
core包：
      TestInv.java启动服务
      Context.java环境配置
util包：
      AutoTestEventUtils.java   封装了所又组件都会使用到的一些公共方法
      ActorsCommon.java         封装了特定组件会使用到的方法
      FX.java                   fx框架
      CustomType.java     
      ClipboardHelper.java    
behavior包：放自动化用例文件，一个用例写一个类

如何确定工具界面的id、按钮、CheckBox呢
首先是判断该界面是基于何种框架，swing还是javafx
swing-->
org.launcher().launch().
Thread.sleep（30000）调用起swing explorer开发辅助工具，确定界面的按钮id等

javafx -->和开发沟通，询问id，或者自己打印某个节点的前端结构进行分析

自动化用例失败了如何调试？
打断点，加入一些打印的信息，看看控制台都输出了什么，分析log、以及失败的截图

What is the structure of an automation script? Public methods, self-written use cases, frameworks, swing, javafx, methods for dragging components
The Java language is used to enable automation use cases
Catalog of Java automation projects, our test projects are managed using maven, pom .xml can configure paths and import jar packages of behavioral modeling tools,
Core Package:
      TestInv .java start the service
      Context .java environment configuration
util package:
      AutoTestEventUtils.java encapsulates some of the common methods that all components use
      ActorsCommon.java encapsulates the methods that a particular component uses
      FX.java fx framework
      CustomType.java     
      ClipboardHelper.java    
Behavior package: Put automation use case files, write a class for each use case
How to determine the id, button, and CheckBox of the tool interface?
The first is to determine what framework the interface is based on, swing or javafx
swing-->
org.launcher().launch().
Thread.sleep (30000) calls the swing explorer development assistance to determine the button ID of the interface, etc
javafx --> communicate with developers, ask for IDs, or print the front-end structure of a node for analysis



Seventh, we need to put these automated testing cases into the execution machine.

Eighth, after automated cases are executed in batches, we need to analyze the failed automated cases. Therefore, we can collect failure logs.
The possible causes are that the test case execution step is incorrect, and the test case assertion fails. 
After the analysis is complete, we need to modify the failed automatic cases and upload the cases for execution to improve the case execution success rate.

这样一个迭代就结束了，每个迭代结束，我们需要输出一篇测试报告，测试报告中写了什么？

测试报告：2.1	测试版本信息、2.2	测试组织、
迭代	任务	开始时间	结束时间	总计（天）
2.3	测试环境描述
2.4	测试工具汇总
3	测试结论、关键风险和规避措施
本轮迭代测试迭代交付质量良好。新增测试用例51条，新增问题16个。支持新增模型库的对应的代码生成处理发现问题单12个，支持模型假设断言约束建模发现问题4个。无关键、严重问题，截止2022.08.26未修复完成的问题单0个。
本次迭代测试覆盖基本功能测试，易用性测试，UI测试，可靠性测试测试。

3.1	测试结论总结 是否可以出口
3.2	关键风险和规避措施
4	详细测试结论 

功能测试
用例多少条、问题单多少个、提示、一般、严重、致命单
性能测试    用例执行的时间，CPU使用率
兼容性测试

5	缺陷统计和分析
6	附录
Such an iteration is over, and at the end of each iteration, we need to output a test report, what is written in the test report?
Test report: 2.1 Test version information, 2.2 Test organization,
Iteration Task Start Time End Time Total (days)
2.3 Test environment description
2.4 Summary of Test Tools
3 Test conclusions, key risks and avoidance measures
The quality of this round of iterative testing is good. 51 new test cases and 16 new questions. It supports 12 problem sheets found by the corresponding code 
generation processing of the new model library, and 4 problem finding problems that support model hypothesis assertion constraint modeling. 
There are no critical and serious problems, and 0 problem lists that have not been fixed as of 2022.08.26.
This iteration test covers basic function test, usability test, UI test, and reliability test test.
3.1 Summary of test conclusions Whether it can be exported
3.2 Key Risks and Avoidance Measures
4 Detailed test conclusions 

Functional testing
How many use cases, how many tickets, prompts, general, critical, fatal orders
Performance testing
Compatibility testing

5 Defect statistics and analysis
6 Appendix



So,what I have done in the past 1 years?
Huawei's smart car project --- behavior modeling tool test

1. Participate in the requirement analysis and test design of Hasbehavior1.0.
Review
2. Understand the functional and non-functional requirements of the tool and perform Simulink analysis if necessary,
A total of 241 text cases have been prepared in half a year.
3. Participate in and automate the text cases of the HASStudioBehavior1.0 project.
Use the Java language to compile automated cases within half a year.
991: Analyze and analyze the implementation effect of automation and analyze the failure of CI automation cases.
The automation rate has been improved to 90%.
4. Perform regression tests at the iteration exit to ensure the project delivery rate.
5. Write blog posting community, summarize work, output 21 articles semi-annually, and communicate with each other.
Share with colleagues in the team to improve the test efficiency.
自己写的博客写的是什么，总结、模型搭建？测试流程？如何提单，如何和开发battle
6. Conduct four rounds of behavior modeling tool documentation tests every half year to ensure timely documentation follow-up,
This helps customers build models using tools.

总结下行为建模提单错误的类型：
1、提示单、UI界面字体不对、文字错误
2、一般、点击按钮或者搭建运行模型出现空指针异常
3、严重单、运行模型无法结束进程、影响其它功能使用
4、重启电脑后，依然有bug
To summarize the types of behavioral modeling bill of lading errors:
1. The font of the prompt sheet and UI interface is incorrect, and the text is wrong
2. Generally, click the button or build the running model with a null pointer exception
3. Serious single, the running model cannot end the process, affecting the use of other functions
4. After restarting the computer, there are still bugs


About the database

About the Java

About the Python

About Data Structures and Algorithms
 


I feel very lucky to have the second interview
Ok, very much that you took time out of your busy schedule to interview, bye bye


selenium   
1、如何使用
2、如何定位网页的元素
3、可以使用哪几种方法，
4、常用的方法有哪些？


Common Linux Commands：https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_49851451/article/details/125821580
Linux的解压缩命令

Common Git Commands:https://www.cnblogs.com/wish-yang/p/15619076.html
Common Docker Commands:https://blog.csdn.net/JinLu_/article/details/125700340

数据结构与算法：冒泡排序及优化：https://blog.csdn.net/hcz666/article/details/117810787

.py和.pyc文件有什么区别
python的可变类型，不可变类型
可变类型：字符串   str 布尔类型  bool 浮点数   float 列表    list 字典   dict 集合 set
不可变类型：整数   int 元组   tuple日期   date

python的浅拷贝和深拷贝
浅拷贝只复制某个对象的引用，而不复制对象本身，新旧对象还是共享同一块内存
深拷贝会创造一个一摸一样的对象，新对象和原对象不共享内存，修改新对象不会改变原对对象。

python的切片

python的重载、多态

python的垃圾回收机制
https://blog.csdn.net/m0_51691302/article/details/123117569

python的装饰器
https://www.runoob.com/w3cnote/python-func-decorators.html

git的常用命令
本地仓库、暂存区、远程仓库的概念
如何切换分支，拉取代码流程，不小心修改了一个文件，如何撤销操作

tcp和udp有什么区别
三次握手、四次挥手

java
protected关键字、arrayList、泛型
static关键字加不加有什么区别
abstract抽象类和interface接口有什么区别
==和equals方法有什么区别
接口和抽象类有什么区别
ArrayList和Linklist有什么区别



测试工具的使用 selenium、postman

通信知识：4g通信协议、5g通信协议、通信原理、数字信号处理、信号与系统这块

软件测试

登陆界面的测试

BS架构和CS架构的区别
B/S架构是浏览器和服务器架构模式。是对C/S架构的一种变化或者改进的架构。
C/S架构是客户端和服务器架构模式。服务器端负责数据的管理，客户端负责完成和用户的交互。

1、硬件环境要求不同：CS架构需要安装客户端且建立在局域网之上，对硬件的要求高；BS架构不需要安装客户端且建立在广域网之上，对硬件的要求低。
2、系统维护、升级难易不同：CS的升级维护需要在客户端和服务端都进行，难度大；BS架构的维护升级只需要处理服务端即可，相对简便。
3、系统安全级别不同：CS结构采取点对点的结构模式，使用的网络协议安全级别较高；BS结构采取一点对多点、多点对多点的开放式结构模式，安全性有待提高。
4、系统速度不同：CS结构（二层）在逻辑结构上比BS结构（三层）少一层,对于相同的任务,CS结构完成的速度总比BS结构快,使得CS更利于处理大量数据。另外,由于客户端实现与服务器的直接相连,没有中间环节,因此响应速度快。
5、交互性不同：CS结构的交互性很强,在CS结构中,客户机有完整的客户端软件,能处理大量的、实时的数据流,响应速度快。BS结构虽然可以提供一定的交互能力,但交互能力很有限。

MySQL的左连接、右连接用的什么关键字、排序用的什么关键字

TCP、IP、UDP通信 https://blog.csdn.net/zzfightingy/article/details/88383635
三次握手、四次挥手：https://blog.csdn.net/qzcsu/article/details/72861891


adb命令

dockers容器部署

自动化脚本的设计模式
can报文怎么发送

自动化用例框架的优点和缺点分别是什么

